Hello and welcome to using Panix for consistency in this lecture you're going to learn all about palettes
what they're used for and at by the end of it you'll be creating your own palette like the one in front
of us here.
Hey and welcome back over into guimpe and this will be one of the first times that we're not actually
going to create an image but we are going to create our own palette.
Of course one of the first questions you might have is what is a palette a palette is simply a collection
of colours whether they're completely random or they have a theme about them.
We can use a palette to select individual colours really quickly so we can make the most out of our
art.
Of course at the moment we've got no access to palettes so let's go ahead and add pallets to our workspace.
There are a couple of ways of doing this.
First of all if you've still got the foreground and background colour tab open this lovely one here
with multiple different selection methods.
One of them at the very top is the fifth one along happens to be pallets and this is a selection of
colours and that will have a specific palette set.
I don't know what this one's called but we're fine now in a few moments and there are a couple of ways
that we can add the palettes to our workspace.
First one is going to Windows the menu at the top we're going to dockable dialogues and going down to
where it says palettes.
And if we click that it will add it to one of our set of tabs is added it here over on the right course
we can pick up and move elsewhere the other way of adding them would be to use the little widget that's
the at the end of all the tabs.
And if you click on one of those it gives us the options add tab and we can go down to palettes and
add it there as well.
I don't want to open twice I'm just going to dismiss one of those.
This one here will we finally win a close tab.
And away it goes.
So I'm going to detach the palettes tab from the right hand side so it's just sat in the middle so we
can see what is going on.
And I'm going to expand that so we can focus on it.
So we have a series of pre made pallets here you can import more if you want.
You can even make your own.
But now we've added pallets to the workspace.
We can select through them and we see we've got an absolute ton of different colours that we can pick
from.
And that is incredibly useful when you're working on a project.
Now of course you can go ahead and edit these or even create your own.
Okay so there are a couple of options as always.
When it comes to editing our palates.
Now if you know exactly what you're doing you can go ahead and edit them to your heart's content.
However I'd always recommend either duplicating or creating a brand new palette to begin with.
And if we look at the bottom of this palettes window.
If we go all the way to the very bottom we can see that there are a couple of options there's an option
to edit the palette that you've currently got selected.
I think this time is plasma and we can create a whole new palette we can duplicate the palette that
is currently selected we can delete the currently selected palette and we can refresh the palette.
If you've made any changes to it so we will update here as well.
Atwood there are a couple of ways that you can go in and edit you can double click so if I double click
plasma for instance we will end up with the palette editor becoming available.
And of course we can drag that out or we can place it elsewhere and you will see the palettes Ed is
very similar in how it looks to our foreground background colour tab.
In fact we can actually manipulate how it looks over here by adjusting some of the settings.
Now you can see at the top of the palette Ed there is a name.
It's called plasma.
In fact in this case we are just editing the plasma.
The main ones are going to be careful here because I don't want to overwrite it in fact to be extra
careful.
Let's go ahead and duplicate it says.
Close that down.
I'm going to go to the duplicate button at the very bottom or indeed you can right click on plasma and
it gives you a series of options.
One of them is duplicate.
So we go ahead and do that we get plasma copy now and click edit at the bottom.
It's going to be bring up the palette editor.
It was already open anyway and then drag that out switch just send so we don't you don't have to follow
me we dragging it out.
I have done that just so I can control how large it is on the screen basically.
So our eyes are not distracted elsewhere so we're just focussed on that.
Now we can see that I've made it far too big.
See you guys can't see the bottom of it.
There we go.
So we have our palette editor here that mimics what the foreground background colour looks like at the
bottom.
We've got a series of options as do most windows here.
And at the top we can see we've got the palette ed out.
It's a plasma copy.
So I'm going to call this plasma copy for testing.
So I know it's a testing one and it can be binned afterwards if necessary and I can go about and change
these if I want to.
But let's change the view.
First of all so we can zoom in and notice that this zooming in only affects the one in front of us.
We can zoom out.
And unfortunately you can't click and hold when it comes to that.
We have a total zoom so it zooms everything in to fill the window.
And this case it's made it very easy to select but be careful if you start editing the columns when
you start editing the columns you can see that it changes what you can see in the foreground background
colour as well.
So I'm just going to increase that back up.
So it looks nice again because that doesn't look so great.
There we go.
And of course once we've changed all of those we can go ahead and hit save and we'll save how it looks
now.
Each of these individual colours can also be named at the moment they're all named untitled if we have
a look there's a little area of it you can names specific colours of I click this yellow one at the
top and typed in the yellow.
That's going to be very hard to categorize all of these.
If you happen to have a specific colour scheme is useful to be able to know exactly what your colour
is called.
And if I call this one over here red won't we go ahead and select the yellow.
It says a yellow one we go ahead and select the red it will say red.
Nice and straightforward there.
Now what happens if we actually want to go ahead and create our own palette absolutely fresh.
In this case I'm going to actually get rid of this plasma copy for testing and we're going to create
our very first palate.
Now it may be tempting to hit the delete button at the bottom of the palette editor but that's for deleting
a colour that you have placed so if I was to click on the yellow and click delete you will actually
remove that colour from the pallor and you can see it shifted everything across and left a black space
i.e. nothing in the lower right hand corner anywhere opening going to close that down.
Now that window and just delete the plasma copy for testing.
So the final thing here is to create a pallet of our very own.
And this will be done in the palettes window or the pallet tab.
If you happen to have it in tab form and at the bottom we've got editing at the palette and then the
next one along creating a new palette.
So when you go ahead and click on that and will get a palette editor up but it will be completely empty.
I'm going to drag it out.
So once again we can focus on it but for no other reason you may want to do this so you can focus it
on your self as well.
So how do we go ahead and add colours to this.
Well along the bottom we have some further options.
There's a new entry.
Again it's that little pay per sheet with a folded over corner I think that's what it is.
And that will add the foreground colour in this case yellow.
And we see after clicking it appears and a whole line appears.
Now if we wanted the background colour which is white at the moment we hold down control and click and
that will appear as well.
You can also click and drag the colour from the colour picker at the top here and drag it in.
Or if you've got a different colour that you've selected are perhaps on your colour wheel.
So let's go ahead and pick a green and drag that across.
We can pop that in as well.
Now eventually you're going to end up with a series of colours in this case.
It's just for practice it can be any ones you want but often you will end up with themes or colours
that group together or just your particular palette that you're going to use for any of your game icons.
So what we can do here is just to see what this looks like in the palette view at the moment.
Tall colours I might not want that I might just want it in one column and then we've got our four colours
now in general.
Four or five colours is a good number.
Nice straightforward number to pick from when you're working with a basic colour scheme any more than
that and you're pretty much just mixing between them.
But if you have four or five main colours that can really help you create consistency within both an
individual game icon or even a set of game icons as well.
And this leads us nicely now onto a challenge and your challenge is to create your own palette of between
five and 10 colours.
Whether or not they have a theme at the moment that's entirely up to you.
But at this present moment it's just to get the skill of creating your own palette.
Later on we'll deal with colour fearing which colours go well together.
If you've already got an intuition for that please do go ahead and create a pleasing palette.
Take a screenshot of your palette once you've produced it and then finally share it with us.
And if you have based it upon a theme Let us guess what that is.
Pause a video now and give that a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and I'm going to create a palettes of my own.
So I have at the moments two yellows are white and agree.
Now that's no good.
I do want to go for a theme myself.
I'm probably going to go for fire.
RA.
So what do we need for fire.
Well in this case I'm going to hit the Delete at the very bottom to delete the entries we currently
have going to have to select them first in order to delete them and yellow yellows are a good start.
I'm going to start completely afresh.
And I'm going to call this fire at the very top is important to name things other ways.
Later on you won't know what you were or why you even had this palette in the first place.
So yellow is a good starting point.
I would agree.
So I'm going to just drag that in and drop it and I'm literally going to move round here and create
a series of colours.
Now I'm also going to slightly make it darker as well as we go around.
Because I feel like fire itself as it gets sort of cooler it starts dropping off and then it starts
turning a little bit to the purple side.
All has made that bigger again so I can see what's going on.
And I'm going to zoom in.
So I've managed to put a darker colour in the wrong place.
Can we drag and drop it elsewhere and just created a new one down there and this one here we can delete.
So that's a nice transition in fact no it's not.
That needs to go there and this needs to go there and then I need to do some tidying up.
I really wasn't looking what I was doing when I was dragging and dropping those.
And that can go in between.
I'm really not doing well this in-between this year.
So this is great because it's allowing us to practice using the guimpe interface.
And maybe if I was just paying a little more attention to my colours as I was going through and adding
them I was very haphazardly adding them.
You know what I'm just going to delete that and that and that to me is a good transition.
One two three four five six.
Now I'm going to use my last set of colours.
I'm not going to go any more for more of a blooey twinge because I want to be able to create some smoke
as well so blue E Grey.
Dark.
And you know I haven't added white when a fire burns really hot.
It is bright white.
Now one could argue that black and white are incredibly accessible.
I remember earlier on we can hover over our colour foreground and background colours and it just hit
the D and white and black comes straight back.
Then we can toggle X between the two.
So in terms of black and white I think we can excuse them from our colour palettes that we're creating
here because they're really easily accessible regardless.
So I've got nine colours in there are 11 really if you can black and white by have nine colours in there.
How does it look when it's selected in our palette.
I quite like that.
Does it look like with two columns that's kind of useful as well.
Aha of course three columns for nine gives us a nine by nine grid.
I like the way that looks.
I'm going to save that and for fullness I could go through and label them yellow or heats or ember's
or something along those lines.
But in this case I don't know how I'm going to use each colour just yet.
I just like the colour scheme that I've got there.
How did you guys get on what did you come up with.
Remembered to take a screenshot of your palette and do share it.
Over on the forum and I will see you guys in the next lecture.